I love the game [Heroes of
Sokoban](https://sites.math.washington.edu/~ostroff/puzzles/Heroes_of_Sokoban.html)
by [Jonah Ostroff](https://sites.math.washington.edu/~ostroff). The game is the
perfect blend between simplicity and depth. The visuals of the game are minimal
but still clear, the sound effects are simple but engaging, and the puzzle
design is fun and challenging.

After watching a video by a YouTuber named [Juniper
Dev](https://www.youtube.com/@JuniperDev) titled "[Make Tiny
Games](https://youtu.be/YtylfQq2JII)," I was inspired to try recreating Jonah's
game using the Pico-8. The Pico-8 is the perfect way to learn how to create
games that are fun without getting overloaded by the complexity of making a full
game. Even just spending a couple hours is enough to create something unique. It
has everything you might need to create a full game including writing code,
drawing art, making music, and designing levels. I learned how to use the Pico-8
in just a day, watching a few YouTube tutorials and reading a few blog posts on
how to get started. After that, I was ready to attempt my goal of recreating
_Heroes of Sokoban_.

I have some experience making small puzzle games, but I have to say this game is
super fun to try to recreate. The process of switching between my version of the
game and Jonah's and seeing what feature I had to try to implement next was a
great learning experience. I wasn't sitting at the computer completely unsure of
what to add next, I could just look at the problem that I needed to solve and
work towards a solution.

I will say, there were a few times when I really wished I had a debugger. The
Pico-8 is great because it's so simple, but sometimes simplicity has a cost. I
ended up resorting to using the built-in
"[printh](https://www.lexaloffle.com/dl/docs/pico-8_manual.html#PRINTH)"
function, which could print text to a file as the game was running, which was
not exactly the best experience.

I come from a low-level systems programming backend, and I love diving deep into
everything that goes on in my program. As a result, I am very comfortable
stepping through code in a debugger and watching how my program runs. [Ryan
Fleury](https://www.rfleury.com), a developer from Epic Games, has been working
on [The RAD Debugger](https://github.com/EpicGamesExt/raddebugger), and it's
clear he understands the core idea that in order for a debugger to be useful, it
has to be faster than adding print statements to your code and rerunning it to
view the output, which is exactly what I had to do many, many times while
working on the Sokoban game.

I will say, the overall experience using Pico-8 was very charming. People praise
it _because_ it has constraints, which aren't always necessarily a bad thing.
Oftentimes constraints can actually lead to more freedom. Instead of sitting in
front of your computer with an endless stream of ideas running through your
brain and not knowing where to start or how to proceeded on a project,
constraints narrow the possibilities to just a few clear options, making it
easier to pick a direction and start creating.

I may write another blog post about some of the algorithms I came up with for
implementing sokoban, as there were some tricky cases that had to be handled. If
you are interested, you may want to [subscribe to my website](index.xml).

As always, if you have any questions, please feel free to reach out. If you want
to play my version of the sokoban game, it's hosted as a web version on my
website [here](games/heroes.html). If you want to play the original _Heroes of
Sokoban_ games (which I strongly recommended you do!), you can find the links on
Jonah Ostroff's
[website](https://sites.math.washington.edu/~ostroff/puzzles.html).
